# baconstuff
This is a project designed to analyze the [Bacon (Erdős) Number](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bacon_number) and how degrees of separation affect value and popularity of actors and the movies they're in.

## Current Usage:
Running scraper.py will attempt to scrape IMDb for all of their movie information, returning it as a JSON with categories for each movie such as rating, reviews, genres, cast, etc. Initially, I was using Beautiful Soup for webscraping, but because there are a lot of movies on the site, I ditched it for lxml, as it has far superior performance time. In my tests, Beautiful Soup would take about 0.3 seconds to scrape a page already requested, while lxml takes 0.04 seconds. This wasn't enough to really speed up this script, as requests, for requesting the web page to scrape, cannot be sped up by any means as it is reliant on my internet speed. To combat this, I use multithreading, creating 16 threads that each make their own requests concurrently, reducing the time of completion by ~16 times. 16 threads is a number unique to my machine and current internet setup. Using guess and check work I concluded that 16 threads allowed my computer to continue being usable while the process is running, and that any more threads would not increase performance by any noticeable amount.

## In Progress:
First, I will need to turn the JSON into a dataframe with pandas. After that, perform simple operations to find degrees of separation between actors. With the degrees of separation and the movie stats recorded from the website, I will be able to make conclusions on how degrees of separation affect actors and their respective movies. The end goal would be to introduce a new number, call it the Bacon Number 2, which evaluates the true value of an actor to a movie based on genre, cast, and popularity.
